so I grew up in East Los Angeles not
even realizing I was poor my dad was a
high-ranking gang member who ran the
streets everyone knew who I was
so I thought it was a pretty big deal
and I was protected and even though my
dad spent most of my life in and out of
jail I had an amazing mom who was just
fiercely independent she worked at the
local high school as a secretary in the
dean's office so she got to see all the
kids I got thrown out of class for
whatever reason who were waiting to be
disciplined man her office was packed so
see kids like us we have a lot of things
to deal with outside of school and
sometimes we're just not ready to focus
but that doesn't mean that we can't it
just takes a little bit more like I
remember one day I found my dad
convulsing foaming at the mouth
OD on the bathroom floor really do you
think that doing my homework that night
was at the top of my priority list not
so much but I really need a support
network a group of people who were going
to help me make sure that I wasn't going
to be a victim of my own circumstance
that they were going to push me beyond
what I even thought I could do I needed
teachers in the classroom every day who
were going to say you can move beyond
that and unfortunately the local junior
high who was not going to offer that it
was gang infested huge teacher turnover
rate so my mom said you're going on a
bus an hour and a half away from where
we live every day so the next two years
that's what I did I took a school bus to
the fancy side of town and eventually I
ended up at a school where there was a
mixture there were some people who were
really gang affiliated and then there
was those of us really trying to make it
to high school well trying to stay out
of trouble
was a little unavoidable you had to
survive you just had to do things
sometimes so
there were a lot of teachers who were
like she's never gonna make it she has
an issue with authority she's not gonna
go anywhere some teachers completely
wrote me off as a lost cause but then
they were very surprised when I
graduated from high school I was
accepted to Pepperdine University and I
came back to the same school that I
attended to be a special ed assistant
and then I told them I want to be a
teacher and boy they were like what why
want to do that so I began my teaching
career at the exact same middle school
that I attended and I really wanted to
try to save more kids who were just like
me and so every year I share my
background with my kids because they
need to know that everyone has a story
everyone has a struggle and everyone
needs help along the way and I am going
to be their help along the way so as a
rookie teacher I created opportunity I
had a kid one day come into my class
having been stabbed the night before I
was like you need to go to a hospital
the school nurse something he's like no
miss I'm not going I need to be in class
because I need to graduate so he knew
that I was not going to let him be a
victim of his circumstance but we were
going to push forward and keep moving on
and this idea of creating a safe haven
for our kids and creating getting to
know exactly what they're going through
getting to know their families I wanted
that but I couldn't do it and a school
with 1,600 kids and teachers turning
over a year after year after year how do
you get to build those relationships so
we created a new school and we created
the San Fernando Institute or applied
media and we made sure that we were
still attached to our school district
for funding for support
but with that we were going to gain
freedom freedom to hire the teachers
that we knew we're going to be effective
freedom to control the curriculum so
that we're not doing lesson 1.2 on page
no and freedom to control a budget to
spend money where it matters not how a
district or a state says you have to do
it we wanted those freedoms but now
shifting an entire paradigm it hasn't
been an easy journey nor is it even
complete but we had to do it our
community deserved a new way of doing
things and as the very first pilot
Middle School in all of Los Angeles
Unified School District you better
believe there was some opposition and it
was out of fear fear of well what if
they get it wrong yeah what if we get it
wrong but what if we get it right and we
did so even though teachers were against
it because we employ one-year contracts
you can't teach or you don't want to
teach you don't get to be at my school
with my kids
so in our third year how did we do it
well we're making school worth coming to
every day we make our kids feel like
they matter to us we make our curriculum
rigorous and relevant to them and they
use all the technology that they're used
to laptops computers tablets you name it
they have it animation software
moviemaking software they have it all
and because we connect it to what
they're doing
for example they made public service
announcements for the Cancer Society
these were played in the local trolley
system teaching elements of persuasion
it doesn't get any more real than that
our state test scores have gone up more
than 80 points since we've become our
own school but it's taken all
stakeholders working together
teachers and principals on one-year
contracts working over and above beyond
their contract hours without
compensation and it takes a school board
member who's going to lobby for you and
say no the district is trying to impose
this but you have the freedom to do
otherwise and it takes an active parent
center who is not only they're showing a
presence every day but who is part of
our governance making decisions for
their kids
our kid because why should our students
have to go so far away from where they
live they deserve a quality school in
their neighborhood a school that they
can be proud to say they attend and a
school that the community can be proud
of as well and they need teachers to
fight for them every day and empower
them to move beyond their circumstances
because it's time that kids like me stop
being the exception and we become the
norm thank you
you